<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="hardware_asset_management_licensing">
    <title>Hardware Asset Management licensing</title>
    <shortdesc>Hardware Asset Management (HAM) licensing enables you to choose the Hardware Asset
        Management resource categories that you want to use. You can save money by paying only for
        those categories that you use, and not for categories that you don't use.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Only the resource categories that are opted in are counted toward the Subscription
            Units.</p>
        <note id="note_py4_ch1_jdc">
            <p>By default for a particular resource category, the normalization functions for its
                associated models and the asset actions for its associated assets don't work. If you
                want to use the normalization functions and asset actions, you have to opt in that
                resource category.</p>
        </note>
        <p>For more information about opting in or out of the HAM license resource categories, see
                <xref
                href="http://Opt-in%20or%20opt-out%20of%20HAM%20license%20resource%20categories."
                format="html" scope="external"/>.</p>
        <p>Based on the usage of model categories, the ServiceNow HAM license is divided into
            resource categories. There are different types of resource categories. Different assets
            fall under different categories as well. Make sure you opt in the correct and required
            categories. An asset represented in the Asset [alm_asset] table and which meets the
            criteria for each managed IT resource type such as Server, End User Computers, Network
            Gear, and Mobile Device, is counted toward a Subscription Unit based on the predefined
            ratio of number of assets to subscription units.</p>
        <note id="note_klr_fh1_jdc">
            <p>Resource categories in HAM are associated with certain entitlements. For example, the
                Computer resource category is shown only if the computer entitlement is available in
                the HAM license. On an on-premise ServiceNow instance, the entitlements aren’t
                downloaded. However, you can store your HAM entitlement details by using the
                sn_ham_active_entitlements system property. You can update this system property with
                a comma separated list of entitlements for which you have access.</p>
        </note>
        <data>
            <title><b>HAM license resource categories</b></title>
        </data>
        <p>The Subscription unit ratio is the ratio of the number of assets to the number of
            subscription units. For example, the subscription unit ratio of End User Computers is
            4:1, where 4 assets require a single unit of license. If 1 license costs $100, then 4
            computer assets cost $100 and 8 computer assets cost $200.</p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_zgs_kh1_jdc">
            <title/>
            <tgroup cols="3">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                <colspec colname="newCol2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Resource category</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Subscription unit ratio</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Model category</p>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>
                            <p>End User Computers</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>4:1</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Computer</p>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Mobile device</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>10:1</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Mobile Device</p>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Monitors</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>15:1</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Monitor</p>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Network Gear</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>5:1</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <ul id="ul_ug1_d31_jdc">
                                <li>Network gear</li>
                                <li>IP Switch</li>
                                <li>IP Router</li>
                            </ul>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Printer</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>10:1</p>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>Printer</p>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry/>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <note id="note_bkz_331_jdc">
            <p>Unclassified hardware, Monitors, Storage, and Printers are available with Hardware
                Asset Management version 10.1.0 and later only when you upgrade to HAM license
                version 5.0.</p>
        </note>
        <p>To access Hardware Asset Management features for Telecommunications Network Inventory,
            you should install the Telecommunications Network Inventory application and opt-in to
            the Telecom Network Inventory resource category. For more information, see <xref
                href="https://www.servicenow.com/docs/csh?topicname=integration-with-hardware-asset-management&amp;version=xanadu&amp;pubname=xanadu-telecom-network-inventory"
                format="html" scope="external">Telecommunications Network Inventory integration with
                Hardware Asset Management </xref>.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
